## Release notes for kops 1.18 series

(The kops 1.18 release has not been released yet, this is a document to gather the notes prior to the release).

# Breaking changes

* Terraform users on AWS may need to rename some resources in their state file in order to prepare for Terraform 0.12 support. See Required Actions below.

* A controller is now used to apply labels to nodes.  If you are not using AWS, GCE or OpenStack your (non-master) nodes may not have labels applied correctly.

* Please see the notes in the 1.15 release about the apiGroup changing from kops to kops.k8s.io

# Significant changes

* The default instance type for AWS is now t3.medium. This should provide better performance and reduced costs in clusters where the average CPU usage is low.

# Required Actions

* Terraform users on AWS may need to rename resources in their terraform state file in order to prepare for future Terraform 0.12 support.
  Terraform 0.12 [no longer supports resource names starting with digits](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-12.html#pre-upgrade-checklist). In Kops, both the default route and additional VPC CIDR associations are affected. See [#7957](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/pull/7957) for more information.
  * The default route was named `aws_route.0-0-0-0--0` and will now be named `aws_route.route-0-0-0-0--0`.
  * Additional CIDR blocks associated with a VPC were similarly named the hyphenated CIDR block with two hyphens for the `/`, for example `aws_vpc_ipv4_cidr_block_association.10-1-0-0--16`. These will now be prefixed with `cidr-`, for example `aws_vpc_ipv4_cidr_block_association.cidr-10-1-0-0--16`.
  
  To prevent downtime, follow these steps with the new version of Kops:
  ```
  kops update cluster --target terraform ...
  terraform plan
  # Observe any aws_route or aws_vpc_ipv4_cidr_block_association resources being destroyed and recreated
  # Run these commands as necessary. The exact names may differ; use what is outputted by terraform plan
  terraform state mv aws_route.0-0-0-0--0 aws_route.route-0-0-0-0--0
  terraform state mv aws_vpc_ipv4_cidr_block_association.10-1-0-0--16 aws_vpc_ipv4_cidr_block_association.cidr-10-1-0-0--16
  terraform plan
  # Ensure these resources are no longer being destroyed and recreated
  terraform apply
  ```

* If a custom Kops build was used on a cluster, a kops-controller Deployment may have been created that should get deleted.
  Run `kubectl -n kube-system delete deployment kops-controller` after upgrading to Kops 1.16.0-beta.1 or later.

# Full change list since 1.17.0 release
