## Release notes for kops 1.19 series

(The kops 1.19 release has not been released yet; this is a document to gather the notes prior to the release).

# Significant changes

## Changes to kubernetes config export

Kops will no longer automatically export the kubernetes config on `kops update cluster`. In order to export the config on cluster update, you need to either add the `--user <user>` to reference an existing user, or `--admin` to export the cluster admin user. If neither flag is passed, the kubernetes config will not be modified. This makes it easier to reuse user definitions across clusters should you, for example, use OIDC for authentication.

Similarly, `kops export kubecfg` will also require passing either the `--admin` or `--user` flag if the context does not already exist.

`kops create cluster --yes` exports the admin user along with rest of the cluster config, as is existing behaviour.

## Other significant changes

* On AWS kops now defaults to using launch templates instead of launch configurations.

* Clusters using the Amazon VPC CNI provider now perform an `ec2.DescribeInstanceTypes` call at instance launch time. In large clusters or AWS accounts this may lead to API throttling which could delay node readiness. If this becomes a problem please open a GitHub issue.

* Alpha support for Hashicorp Vault as store for secrets and keys. See the [Vault state store docs](/state/#vault-vault).
  
# Breaking changes

* Support for Kubernetes 1.9 and 1.10 has been removed.

* Support for the Romana networking provider has been removed.

# Required Actions

# Deprecations

* Support for Kubernetes versions 1.11 and 1.12 are deprecated and will be removed in kops 1.20.

# Full change list since 1.18.0 release
