## Release notes for kOps 1.20 series

(The kOps 1.20 release has not been released yet; this is a document to gather the notes prior to the release).

# Significant changes

* Added [template funtions](https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/operations/cluster_template/#template-functions) for kubernetes version based on channel data.

* kOps now use helm3 functions for merging template `--set` and `--values` arguments. This has slightly different behaviour than previous helm2-like logic.

* Following kubeadm, control plane nodes are now labelled with `node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane=""`

# Breaking changes

* Support for Kubernetes 1.11 and 1.12 has been removed.

* Support for Terraform version 0.11 has been removed.

* Support for the feature flag `Terraform-0.12` has been removed.  All generated Terraform HCL2/JSON files will support versions `0.12.26+` and `0.13.0+`.

# Required Actions

* If you are running `kops toolbox template` in an airgapped environment, you have to set `--channel` to point to a local channel file.

* If your workload targets control plane nodes, you need to change them to select the `node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane=""` label. You should also add the `node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane:NoSchedule` toleration to these workloads. This taint will not be added to control plane nodes before kOps 1.22.

# Deprecations

* Support for Kubernetes versions 1.13 and 1.14 are deprecated and will be removed in kOps 1.21.

* The [manifest based metrics server addon](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/tree/master/addons/metrics-server) has been deprecated in favour of a configurable addon.

* The [manifest based cluster autoscaler addon](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/tree/master/addons/cluster-autoscaler) has been deprecated in favour of a configurable addon.

* The `node-role.kubernetes.io/master` and `kubernetes.io/role` labels are deprecated and will be removed from control plane nodes in kOps 1.22

# Full change list since 1.19.0 release
