## Release notes for kOps 1.23 series

**&#9888; kOps 1.23 has not been released yet! &#9888;**

This is a document to gather the release notes prior to the release.

# Significant changes

## Other significant changes

# Breaking changes

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.17 has been removed.

* Support for the Lyft CNI has been removed.

# Required actions

# Deprecations

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.18 is deprecated and will be removed in kOps 1.24.

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.19 is deprecated and will be removed in kOps 1.25.

* Support for CentOS 7 is deprecated and will be removed in future versions of kOps.

* Support for CentOS 8 is deprecated and will be removed in future versions of kOps.

* Support for Debian 9 (Stretch) is deprecated and will be removed in future versions of kOps.

* Support for RHEL 7 is deprecated and will be removed in future versions of kOps.

* Support for Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic) is deprecated and will be removed in future versions of kOps.

* All legacy addons are deprecated in favor of managed addons, including the [metrics server addon](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/tree/master/addons/metrics-server) and the [autoscaler addon](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/tree/master/addons/cluster-autoscaler).

* The `node-role.kubernetes.io/master` and `kubernetes.io/role` labels are deprecated and might be removed from control plane nodes in future versions of kOps.

* Due to lack of maintainers, the Aliyun/Alibaba Cloud support has been deprecated. The current implementation will be left as-is until the implementation needs updates or otherwise becomes incompatible. At that point, it will be removed. We very much welcome anyone willing to contribute to this cloud provider.

* Due to lack of maintainers, the CloudFormation support has been deprecated. The current implementation will be left as-is until the implementation needs updates or otherwise becomes incompatible. At that point, it will be removed. We very much welcome anyone willing to contribute to this target.

# Other changes of note

# Full change list since 1.22.0 release

