## Release notes for kOps 1.26 series

**&#9888; kOps 1.26 has not been released yet! &#9888;**

This is a document to gather the release notes prior to the release.

# Significant changes

* The default networking provider for new clusters is now Cilium.

* Control-plane instance groups in new clusters are now created with names starting
with "control-plane-". The names of groups for existing clusters are unchanged.

* The channels CLI that kOps use to manage addons is now bundled with the kOps binary. These commands are useful for addon diagnostics and troubleshooting. For example, to list installed addons, run `kops toolbox addons get addons`.

## AWS

* Bastions are now fronted by a Network Load Balancer.

* Instance group images can now be dynamically fetched through an AWS SSM Parameter.

* The AWS Load Balancer, when enabled, will run on worker nodes if IRSA is enabled as of Kubernetes version 1.24.

* As of Kubernetes version 1.26 and with IRSA enabled, control plane nodes will now run with a max hop limit of 1 for the metadata service. This will prevent Pods without host networking from accessing the instance metadata service.

* IPv6 is now beta. New IPv6 clusters now default to using private topology.

* CapacityRebalance can be enabled/disabled on ASGs through a new `capacityRebalance` field in InstanceGroup specs.

* New clusters can more easily be configured to use Cilium in ENI mode by setting `--networking=cilium-eni`.

* Node Termination Handler now defaults to Queue-Processor mode.

## GCP

* The default instance type is now `e2-medium` for control-plane and worker nodes, and `e2-micro` for bastions.

# Breaking changes

## Other breaking changes

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.20 has been removed.

* Support for CloudFormation has been removed.

* The experimental support for using Vault as a state store has been removed.

* As it has been disrecommended by upstream, Canal is not supported for Kubernetes 1.26 or later.

* The "external" networking option is not supported for Kubernetes 1.26 or later. For "bring your own"
CNIs, use the "cni" networking option instead.

# Deprecations

* The "kops get [CLUSTER]" command is deprecated. It is replaced by "kops get all [CLUSTER]".

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.21 is deprecated and will be removed in kOps 1.27.

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.22 is deprecated and will be removed in kOps 1.28.

* Support for Ubuntu 18.04 is deprecated and will be removed in kOps 1.28.

* Support for AWS Classic Load Balancer for API is deprecated and should not be used for newly created clusters.

* All legacy addons are deprecated in favor of managed addons, including the [metrics server addon](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/tree/master/addons/metrics-server) and the [autoscaler addon](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/tree/master/addons/cluster-autoscaler).
