## Release notes for kOps 1.32 series

**&#9888; kOps 1.32 has not been released yet! &#9888;**

This is a document to gather the release notes prior to the release.

kOps 1.32 is planned as a small release without significant additional features beyond updated support for kubernetes 1.32 and associated ecosystem updates. Significant kOps features will instead target kOps 1.33.

# Significant changes

## Kubernetes minor version upgrades to 1.31 or later should be performed using the `kops reconcile cluster command.

* Kubernetes 1.31 introduced stricter checks around the version-skew policy. While kOps has always followed the version-skew policy, there was an edge case:
nodes that were added by an autoscaler during a rolling-update would not always follow the version-skew policy.
We recommend trying the new kops reconcile command, see [docs/tutorial/upgrading-kubernetes.md](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/tutorial/upgrading-kubernetes.md) for more details.
The `kops reconcile` functionality was introduced in kOps 1.32.

* flannel is no longer planned to be removed and has been updated to v0.26.4.

* TODO

## Some Feature

* TODO

## AWS

* TODO

## GCP

* TODO

## Openstack

* TODO

# Other changes of note

* TODO

# Breaking changes

## Other breaking changes

* TODO

# Known Issues

* TODO

# Deprecations

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.26 is deprecated and is removed in kOps 1.32.

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.27 is deprecated and will be removed in kOps 1.33.
