## Release notes for kOps 1.37 series

**&#9888; kOps 1.37 has not been released yet! &#9888;**

This is a document to gather the release notes prior to the release.

# Significant changes

* Support for AWS Classic Load Balancer (CLB) for the API, deprecated since kOps 1.26, has been removed. See the breaking changes section below for the required actions.

# Other changes of note

* TODO

# Breaking changes

* Support for AWS Classic Load Balancer (CLB) for the API has been removed. Clusters with `spec.api.loadBalancer.class: Classic` (or with no explicit `class`, which previously defaulted to Classic) fail validation, and the long-deprecated `kops create cluster --api-loadbalancer-class` flag has been removed. Existing clusters using a CLB must migrate to a Network Load Balancer (NLB) using kOps 1.36 or earlier before upgrading to kOps 1.37, following the [CLB to NLB migration guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/permalinks/acm_nlb.md). Attaching instance groups to externally-managed Classic Load Balancers via `spec.externalLoadBalancers[].loadBalancerName` remains supported.

## Other breaking changes

* None at this time

# Known Issues

* None at this time

# Deprecations

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.31 is removed in kOps 1.37.

* Support for Kubernetes version 1.32 is deprecated and will be removed in kOps 1.38.

* Support for AWS Classic Load Balancer (CLB) for the API is removed in kOps 1.37.

* Support for containerd versions older than 2.2 (all end of life upstream) is deprecated and will be removed in kOps 1.38.
