_This is a WIP document describing changes to the upcoming kops 1.7 release_

# Significant changes

* Manifests are rewritten by default, which includes a normalization phase.
  This can make it hard to understand the actual changes (as opposed to just the formatting changes).
  A feature flag has been added, `export KOPS_FEATURE_FLAGS="-RewriteManifests"` which can be used
  to disable manifest rewriting.  A recommendation: you can run `kops update` twice, once without
  manifest formatting to show the real changes, and then immediately afterwards with manifest changes,
  which will be just formatting changes.  Run `KOPS_FEATURE_FLAGS="-RewriteManifests" kops update cluster`,
  to show the real changes, apply them with `KOPS_FEATURE_FLAGS="-RewriteManifests" kops update cluster --yes`,
  then run `kops update cluster` to show the formatting changes, followed by `kops update cluster --yes`

* Default disk size increased to 64GB (masters) and 128GB (nodes).  This does have a higher cost, but also gives us more inodes & more iops (and more disk space, of course!)
* Calico now configured with the correct pod CIDR: #2768. Please refer to the *Required Actions* section for details regarding this.

# Required Actions

* Existing Calico users on clusters that were created prior to kops 1.7 are suspectible to IP conflict between Pods and Services due to an overlap of the two IP ranges. Migration to a new Pod CIDR is recommended, and is a manual procedure due to risk of potential downtime during this operation. For the migration procedure, please refer to [this document](../upgrade_from_kops_1.6_to_1.7_calico_cidr_migration.md).
